[MUSIC]
Strings are an important
data type inside Python.
Strings are basically just a sequence
of characters and closing quotes.
So here we have Hello,
world is enclosed in quotes.
Notice that in the case I'm using
single quotes to enclose the string.
I could use double quotes.
It doesn't matter.
You can use either one.
So a string is just a sequence
of characters and you know,
it could be assigned to
a variable just like anything.
So you could say X equals hello world or
something like that.
And that would work.
It can be manipulated so you can do
things to it using string operators and
functions.
And we'll talk about some of
the most common string operators and
functions that you use to access certain
parts of the string, things like this.
So a small example.
You can say hello.
Just type in 'Hello, World' at the prompt,
and it just prints it back to you.
You could set variables equal to strings,
so s = 'still' and
t = 'life', and that's fine to do.
Now, here are some string operators,
some of the more common operators.
Let's go through these one at a time.
So let's take the first operator, x in s.
Now in this case, x and
s are both strings.
And x in s tests if x is a substring of s.
So it's a Boolean operator.
It returns a true if x is,
can be found within s, a bigger string s.
X not in s is obviously the opposite,
right?
It returns true if x cannot be
found as a substring within s.
S + t is concatenation.
So you take two, s and
t are two strings, concatenation basically
means putting the two strings together.
So just gluing them together
as one bigger string.
So s + t returns a string,
a new string which is the concatenation
of the two individual strings.
S x n and n x s,
either importer doesn't matter.
In this case s is a string and
it's just some integer.
And what that does is it
concatenate s to itself n times.
So if you say s times two, it takes s,
whatever that string is, and
repeats it twice.
It concatenates it to itself two times.
And then if you say s times three,
it copies it three times and so on.
All right now s[i],
that's the index operation.
And we'll talk about this, but
basically that's how you access
an individual character in a string.
So if s is a string, then i is some
integer, s of zero, s bracket zero,
is the first character in that string.
And then s bracket one is the second
character in the string, and so on.
So you can access individual characters
inside a string using this index operator.
And len, with s for s is a string, that
just tells you the length of the string,
you often need to know that in terms
of the integer, which is the length.
So these are very common operators, let's
look at some of these operators in action.
So here we have a just a, so we start
off with Hello, World prints it out.
S is equal to still, t is equal to life.
And then after that we're
using some Boolean operators.
Actually, in addition to some
string operators I described above,
you can use Boolean operators,
comparison operators.
So for instance,
s == 'still', all right, and
s is equal to still, so that returns true.
S not equal to t, that also returns
true because s is still, t is life.
They're not equal, so returns true.
S less than t and greater than t.
That's basically alphanumerical order,
and since s is earlier,
s is still and t is life, right?
So life is earlier in
the alphabet than still, so
life is actually less than
still by that ordering.
So when you say is s less than t it's
false and t less than s is true.
So, let's go through some
of those string operators.
Remember, s is equal to still,
t is equal to life in our example, so
if I say s + t,
it just makes a new string,
stilllife, glues them both together,
concatenates them together.
Now, in the next line, I saw s +, and then
in quotes I have a single blank space, so
s + blank space + t, so
I'm concatenating three things.
Still, and then a blank space, and then t.
So in the end I get,
still life, as the new string.
The last one I say 5 * x.
I just take the word still,
which is s, and
repeat it five times and that's it,
concatenate it five times.
So those are some operators.
Then here's another example
of the concatenation.
The multiple concatenations.
So 20 * "_".
I have an underscore in single quotes,
so it just repeats 20 of them and
gives me a big string of 20 underscores.
Now the next one i in s is true.
So it's looking at the string,
a very short string, i, is that inside s?
Now s is the word still, is i in there?
Yes, there is an i in there,
so it returns true.
O in t.
So o, the letter o is not in the word
life, so o in t returns false.
Li in t true because li is
a substring of life, and
length of t is 4 because life is 4 long.
And there's the indexing operator.
Indexing operator basically takes
a string, in this case apple because apple
is a string, and you could pass it inside
the brackets, you pass an index number,
an integer which is the value, the number
of the character that you're looking for
inside the string and it'll return that.
So, s|0|, it starts at 0.
It starts counting at 0.
So, s |0| gives me the first
character which is a capital A.
S|1| gives me the second
character which is lower case p.
And so on.
It takes the index as the argument and
indices start at zero, remember that.
That one off error,
sometimes you think it starts at one.
Remember in computer science
we're always start at zero.
And you can identify individual
characters inside a string, or
refer to them and
use them in any way you want in the code.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]